R2021a blog post (#2530)
cyberbotics/webots: docs/blog/Webots-2021-a-release.md

# Version R2021a Released

<p id="publish-data">By Darko Lukic - **XX**th December 2020</p>

---

> Webots R2021a is there! And it's packed some new features, improvements and, of course, bug fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Webots R2021a is there! And it's packed with some new features, improvements and, of course, bug fixes.
```

However, this article only lists some of the major changes.
Please refer to the [R2021 changelog](../reference/changelog-r2021.md) for a comprehensive list of all changes.

## Camera Image Segmentation

Webots now is ready for your next deep learning project as it now supports [object recognition and segmentation](https://cyberbotics.com/doc/reference/camera#wb_camera_has_recognition)!

%figure "Image Segmentation"
![Image Segmentation](images/image_segmentation.gif)
%end

This new functionality reuses the existing camera recognition functionality to classify the objects in the scene based on properties of the object instance.

> This generic and customizablemethod allows the user to apply any type of segmentation: semantic, instance or panoptic seg-mentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generic and customizable method allows the user to apply any type of segmentation: semantic, instance or panoptic segmentation.
```

Simply setting the recognition property at the object model layer, will generate a semantic segmentation.

---

## ROS 2 & Webots

We are continuing to develop and improve the support for ROS 2 in Webots with now [13 Webots packages for ROS 2](https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots\_ros2).
This version of Webots is fully compatible with [ROS 2 Foxy Fitzroy](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Releases/Release-Foxy-Fitzroy).

- We are happy to participate to [Google Season of Docs](https://cyberbotics.com/gsod) this year!
Thanks to the [Soft illusion YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrl9pLcAAKy8wuXkN-on3xQ) channel a serie of video tutorials about ROS2 and Webots is now available.
Check [the playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLt69C9MnPchkP0ZXZOqmIGRTOch8o9GiQ) and learn about ROS2 basics, how to create a Webots ROS2 driver, how to do SLAM, or follow AR tags. 
- We also signficantly enchanged and refactored our documentation for the [webots\_ros2](https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots\_ros2) package.
References, examples, and tutorials, are now gathered to [a single place](https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots\_ros2/wiki) with a clean overview.

> - We improved performances of the Lidar node by over 7 times.

Reviewer: In English, performance is always singular.
```suggestion
- We improved performance of the Lidar node by over 7 times.
```

- The InertialUnit node now returns quaternions making it easier to use in ROS2 nodes.

---

## More Assets

> In order to improve our asset library, we have added baskets that may be convinient for your next pick-and-place project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to improve our asset library, we have added baskets that may be convenient for your next pick-and-place project.
```

# Version R2021a Released

<p id="publish-data">By Darko Lukic - **XX**th December 2020</p>

---

Webots R2021a is there! And it's packed with some new features, improvements and, of course, bug fixes.

However, this article only lists some of the major changes.
Please refer to the [R2021 changelog](../reference/changelog-r2021.md) for a comprehensive list of all changes.

## Stars ⭐️ and Milestones 🎉

Webots GitHub repository has reached more than 1000 stars!
This is fantastic news for us as it shows that the Webots community has been growing ahead of our expectations.
It has been 2 years since we started the exciting open-source journey.
We are thankful to all contributors and partners who made the Webots open-source dream becomes a reality.

This year will be also remembered by other milestones:

> - Our Discord community is now counting over 1000 members.
> - The YouTube Cyberobotics channel has exceeded 1000 subscribers.
> - The recently released Webots Docker container has yielded almost 5000 downloads.

Reviewer 2: Could we maybe also add the links to Discord/YouTube and Docker?

```suggestion
- Our Discord community is now counting over 1000 members.
- The YouTube Cyberbotics channel has exceeded 1000 subscribers.
- The recently released Webots Docker container has yielded almost 5000 downloads.
```

----

## Camera Image Segmentation

Webots now is ready for your next deep learning project as it now supports [object recognition and segmentation](https://cyberbotics.com/doc/reference/camera#wb_camera_has_recognition)!

%figure "Image Segmentation"
![Image Segmentation](images/image_segmentation.gif)
%end

This new functionality reuses the existing camera recognition functionality to classify the objects in the scene based on the properties of the object instance.

> This generic and customizable method allows the user to apply any type of segmentation: semantic, instance, or panoptic seg-mentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This generic and customizable method allows the user to apply any type of segmentation: semantic, instance, or panoptic segmentation.
```

> Simply setting the recognition property at the object model layer, will generate a semantic segmentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After setting the recognition property of an object, the object will be immediately displayed in the segmentation image.
```

---

## ROS 2 & Webots

> We are continuing to develop and improve the support for ROS 2 in Webots with now [13 Webots packages for ROS 2](https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots\_ros2).

Reviewer 2: What is the correct spelling `ROS2` or `ROS 2`?

Reviewer: I would go for `ROS2`.

Reviewer: On a second thought, I believe "ROS 2" is the official spelling see https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/. I will revert my changes.

This version of Webots is fully compatible with [ROS 2 Foxy Fitzroy](https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Releases/Release-Foxy-Fitzroy).

- We are happy to participate in [Google Season of Docs](https://cyberbotics.com/gsod) this year!
Thanks to the [Soft illusion YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCrl9pLcAAKy8wuXkN-on3xQ) channel a series of video tutorials about ROS2 and Webots is now available.
Check [the playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLt69C9MnPchkP0ZXZOqmIGRTOch8o9GiQ) and learn about ROS2 basics, how to create a Webots ROS2 driver, how to do SLAM, or follow AR tags. 
- We also significantly enhanced and refactored our documentation for the [webots\_ros2](https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots\_ros2) package.
References, examples, and tutorials, are now gathered to [a single place](https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots\_ros2/wiki) with a clear overview.

> - We improved the performance of the Lidar node by over 7 times.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- We improved the performance of the [Lidar](https://cyberbotics.com/doc/reference/lidar) node by over 7 times.
```

> - The InertialUnit node now returns quaternions making it easier to use in ROS2 nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The [InertialUnit](https://cyberbotics.com/doc/reference/inertialunit) node now returns quaternions making it easier to use in ROS2 nodes.
```

In order to improve our asset library, we have added baskets that may be convenient for your next pick-and-place project.

| | |
| :---: | :---: |
| ![PlasticFruitBox](images/plastic_fruit_box.thumbnail.png) | ![MetalStorageBox](images/metal_storage_box.thumbnail.png) |

---

## Webots GitHub Action

Running Webots simulations in GitHub's CI has never been easier!

%figure "Webots GitHub Action"
![Webots GitHub Action Image](https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots-animation-action/raw/master/assets/cover.png)
%end

Now, you can use [Webots GitHub Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/webots-animation) and in a few lines configure Webots to run your worlds in CI.

The GitHub action will automatically publish animation of your Webots simulations to [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/), so you can share them easily with your peers.
In addition, you can integrate unit testing and run the tests every commit.

---

## Extra Goodies

Webots now supports Python 3.9 on all platforms (Windows, Linux, and macOS).

Devices added during the simulation run are available in the robot controller.
We believe this feature will be especially interesting for deep learning applications.

> We also added [exposure control](camera.md#wb_camera_get_exposure) to the camera node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also added [exposure control](camera.md#wb_camera_get_exposure) to the [Camera](https://cyberbotics.com/doc/reference/camera) node.
```
